Update AI policy, per NLnet document. (#1312)
collective/icalendar: docs/contribute/index.rst

We want to protect the joy, goodwill, and volunteer time of the maintainers and contributors of icalendar.
As such, we take a strong stance against artificial intelligence (AI) abuse.

Contributors to icalendar must follow icalendar's AI policy as described in this section and its subsections.

.. _responsible-ai-use:

Responsible AI use
``````````````````

You may responsibly use AI as a tool to draft a pull request.
That means you must comply with :ref:`pull-request-requirements` and follow icalendar's `Code of Conduct <https://github.com/collective/icalendar/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`_.

If you use AI in your work:

> -   You must take responsibility for the output, including reviewing and validating the output for accuracy and ensuring it resolves an issue.

Reviewer: Is the term "output" understandable for the average vibe coder?  Perhaps "AI-output" or "AI-generated code" or "AI suggestions" is better?  (I don't have any strong opinions on this)

Author: The context is "If you use AI in your work:". Every contributor is responsible for their output, regardless of whether they use AI or not. It would be redundant and slightly odd to tack "AI" on.

> -   You must disclose the AI's terms of use.

Reviewer: How should this be done?  I think it would be very bad to pollute pull requests or git commit messages with verbatim copies of the terms of use.  The NLNet policy just says that one should read them.  I think it's a good idea to encourage people to read them.

I would suggest to either replace with "you must read and understand the AI's term of use" or "Provide a link to the AI's term of use in the pull request text". 

Also, "AI's term of use" ... perhaps it should be rewritten into "AI providers term of use"?

Author: See https://github.com/collective/icalendar/pull/1312#pullrequestreview-4105488476

> -   You must ensure that outputs are not reconstructed from copyrighted sources.

Author: Merging these for compliance with NLnet.

```suggestion
-   You must check the AI's terms of use, and ensure that outputs are not reconstructed from copyrighted sources.
```

> -   You must ensure that outputs are not reconstructed from copyrighted sources.

Reviewer: This is a very vague statement, it's not easily actionable.  One could even argue that *any* AI-usage would violate this rule, as there for sure are copyrighted sources in the AIs training material (consider that even the RFCs and the code with some FLOSS-license technically is to be considered copyrighted).  We may need to have some statement on this, but I'd like it to be more actionable and less vague.

Author: Is this inconsistent with NLnet's policy?

https://nlnet.nl/foundation/policies/generativeAI/

See this PR's title.

Reviewer: The direct wording of the NLnet policy is

> Grantees must ensure that all submitted work can be legally published under a FLOS licence. This includes verifying that GenAI-assisted outputs do not reproduce copyrighted or incompatible material.

Then there is some "example" text below.

So change the text into "verify that GenAI-assisted outputs do not reproduce copyrighted or incompatible material", and it's OK for me.

Author: I pulled this literally from the NLnet policy:

> check the assistant’s terms of use, and ensure that outputs are not reconstructed from copyrighted sources.

> -   You are expected to understand and be able to explain design and code decisions.

Reviewer: At least for the CalDAV project, I do consider vibed-up *bugfixes* to be OK as long as the contributor clearly informs that he "has no idea what Claude has done here".  The value from the contributor in such a case is not the code itself, but the discovery of the bug, reproduction and verification that the vibed-up code actually fixes the bug.  It's then up to the code maintainer to consider what to do with the pull request.

Author: Is this not aligned with the NLnet policy? If not, then what would you change?

Reviewer: I'm not sure of the best wording, perhaps `(exceptions may apply for small changesets fixing obvious bugs)`.  My intention is that downstream users that have found a bug should be encouraged to deliver a pull request if they can, even if they do not fully understand the context or the code they have vibed up.  Rationale being that the information "here is an issue, and with those code changes the issue is solved for me" can be more useful than just "here is an issue", even if the quality of the vibed-up code is too low to be included directly in the project.

The requirement in the NLnet policy is like this:

> Use of GenAI must not reduce the quality, clarity, reliability, or reproducibility of the work

Any code going into the project has to be fully understood *by the reviewers and maintainers*.  In particular if they receive funds from NLnet for vetting the downstream contributions.  (NLnet is not funding the downstream contributors, actually they are not obliged to follow the NLnet policies, we are obliged to ensure the work going into the project adheres to them).

It's a big problem when people fixes their pet feature requests through vibing and make shitty change-requests.  Five minutes of "vibing" may cause an hour of headache by the reviewer, and the win is a feature that may not even pull the project in the right direction.

Bugfixes are different. The quality of the project can only increase when previously unknown bugs are found and dealt with.  Of course, to ensure the quality it may be needed to reject the pull request and rewrite the code.

Author: We only need alignment with NLnet policy. I think you're putting waaaaaay too much effort into this, and it's putting a lot of stop energy into this PR.

Reviewer: Ref my reasoning above, the line should actually be dropped completely, if the scope of the PR strictly is "align with NLnet policies".  I'll find the way out from here myself.

Author: It's part of the NLnet policy.

> Human contributors are are expected to understand and be able to explain design and code decisions.

> -   You must distinguish git commits that add generated code and include the used model and prompts in your commit message.

Author: @tobixen @niccokunzmann does this align better, per the email discussion with NLnet, and address @tobixen's concern? See https://github.com/collective/icalendar/pull/1312#issuecomment-4232793290.

```suggestion
-   In your git commit messages, you must specify both (1) which AI model and version you used, and (2) how you used it, by either including the prompts and interactions you used or summarizing them.
```

Reviewer: * "AI's terms of use" - I never thought of that.  We may add that a link in the pull request text is sufficient (I really don't want a verbatim copy of such things in inbound pull requests).  For Claude Code, I can find https://code.claude.com/docs/en/legal-and-compliance and https://www.anthropic.com/legal/aup - those are documents that of course should be read before starting to use Claude Code - and by asking for the links, we're also encouraging the user to search for and read those documents.
* "You must ensure that outputs are not reconstructed from copyrighted sources".  What can the average downstream contributor do about this?  Can it be rewritten into something that is actionable by downstream contributors?
* "You are expected to understand and be able to explain design and code decisions" - I do have an exception in my caldav AI-USAGE.md, *bugfixes* are mostly welcome.  If someone that knows no python at all discovers a bug, "vibes" up a bugfix, and the bugfix works for them, then the pull request is most welcome in my book.  The value added by the contributor is not the code itself, but the discovery of the bug and verification that the fix works.  My only requirement is that the contributor is honest that the code change has been "vibed" with minimal or no understanding.

Author: I'm sorry, but I don't know what you want to change. Please edit my suggestion to something that is agreeable to you.

Reviewer: Sorry, some of my review comments ended up in the wrong place.  I'll try again.  (I'm still not much familiar with the github code review functionality)
